ls 				: List stuff.
ls -a 				: list all stuff about stuff.
pwd  				: print working directory
pushd and popd 			: pushes and pulls the current directory
file .filename 			: show what kind of file this is.
locate filename			: Searches the system for the file. database needs to be enabled:
sudo updatedb
which				: Finds commands installed. Example which cal
history				: Show all previous commands issued.
whatis app			: Short display of what an app is
man app				: Manual for applications etc.
apropos time			: If you don't know the whole name of an app this searches through all that include.
touch				: Makes a file or if the file exists it will update the date and time 
rm				: Removes a file
rm -r				: Removes a directory with all files and directories in it.
cat:
cat file1.txt file2.txt		: Concatinate everything in file1.txt into file2.txt
cat >> file1.txt		: You get a blinking cursor. Everything you type goes into this file.
cat > file1.txt			: Removes everything allready in file1.txt and replaces it.
more file1.txt			: Just stops when the page is full so you can read through the whole text.
less file1.txt			: Less is more! Now you can use the arrow keys up and down and even search text.
text editors			: nano and vi are basic on most systems.

piping examples:
history | less
ls -al / > contentofroot	: Takes everything (-al) and put into textfile contentofroot
sudo				: Allow you to work as another user.
users				: Show all logged in users
id				: Gives information about your account.

File permissions:
-------
r: read
w: write
x: execute

First 3 bits are user.
Next 3 bits are group.
Three last bits are everyone.

chmod modifies the permissions.
hard to use the correct syntaxes but +x are executables.
Example 1: chmod 700    : Makes the file rwx for YOU only.
Example 2: chmod 744    : Make all permissions for me and read for everyone.
Example 3: chmod 644    : Makes a file -rw-rw-r

Directories are a bit harder to get. 
The execute bit must be set for other people to see that directory.
If you dont set the read bit they cannot see it.
If you doens't set the write bit they will not even see it.

Getting out of processes and bash:
CTRL+C usually end anything running in the prompt.
killall [name of application]

How to get out of BASH: exit, logout or CTRL+D
 
